your data secure sadly for most people
the answer is probably not whether it's
for mobile to surveillance or company
failure or another single point of
failure that's just not so our solution
to this
it's called Pegasus it builds on top of
ipfs and I'm gonna give you a super
quick intro to Vegas then it's first
start with what we're actually trying to
solve here so what do I want in this
storage and sharing system three main
categories security control and
convenience we'll talk a little bit more
about these but security like things
like safe login strong crypto hiding
file metadata independent of DNS this
kind of thing control it should be self
host of all you should have fine-grained
access control pseudonymous you don't
need to a phone number to register for
example or even an email address for
that matter and convenience anyone
should be able to use it you know you
shouldn't have to know anything about
crypto or anything so we want to web
interface what about a login from any
device and it should be basically as
convenient as Dropbox or Facebook so
let's start with the first one control
so our overall architecture is obviously
based on IP FS so a lot of our data is
in ipfs itself we use IP NS for mutual
pointers basically mapping from a public
key to a hash now we also have a PKI
server which actually stores its data in
ipfs as well and so yeah basically a
client piggles client talks to a pig or
server which basically just proxy stuff
together there other stuff and the
server explicitly is not trusted in any
way once you've got the client code
mm-hmm
so the basic structure we have a global
file system everyone gets space under
their username each user has a tree of
symmetric keys with cryptographic links
between them as how we do access control
so you end up with a location plastic
key is a capability and that allows you
to both retrieve and and read a file
we explicitly don't use convergent
encryption because that leaks to the
network the files that you have this is
the tree structure we use for
access control so on the left is a
directory basically with a bunch of keys
each box is a key that's a subdirectory
with some other keys that's a file at
the end with the fewer keys and these
links basically mean if you have the
source key you can derive the target key
and so whoever has this key can read the
entire subtree but someone who only has
the the file base key they can obviously
read the file and what we do is we have
these backlinks to have a well-defined
path so everything has a well-defined
path but you can't someone who could
only read the file can't read anything
else in the same directory or or
anything else higher up so when you
upload a file we first chunk it into
five Meg chunks each five Meg is
independently encrypted split them into
fragments each of those who put in ipfs
and those are then merkel linked from
the encrypted metadata for whatever that
is the file fragment and then you could
do matadeiro itself we put in there
another nice data structure in IP LD as
well
second topic convenience so I mentioned
a web interface but the critical thing
there is to centralize logging what does
that even mean without a central server
fundamental we want people to be able to
log in with a password and so the way we
do that in a safe way is we basically
take your password we salt it with your
username which is public send it through
memory hard hashing function called
scripts and gives you three three things
down the other end one is your your root
symmetric key basically for your root
directory and two key pairs which are
kind of your identity and the other ones
used for social stuff but and yeah these
are never never written to disk
or transmitted they're just stored in
RAM when you're logged in and finally
security so how how secure is that login
obviously it's only as strong as your
password you choose
total password you will lose your data
won't even lose it it'll be exposed but
so assuming you have a decent password
which obviously you have to help people
with because people don't know what a
secure password is so we recommend 14
characters of numeric that's this many
possibilities a lot back in the envelope
calculation based on the hashing for the
litecoin network which uses the same
hash function we use but with simpler
parameters easier parameters basically
that would take one GPU 300 billion
years or if you had 300 million GPUs
that still take a thousand years and the
purchase cost of those GPUs would be
about 300 billion US dollars so
basically even certain three-letter
agencies shouldn't be able to afford to
crack this if you have a good password
there my time right so hopefully this
works so this is the demo server we have
I'm just going to log in quickly yep
so this obviously it's also showing you
what the the UI looks like at the moment
but what I want to do is show you
streaming video so bear in mind this is
not streaming from the server this is
getting all the chunks independently
decrypting them locally in the browser
and then piping that to a local stream
in the browser itself and hopefully this
will work
and hopefully it will have sound we
shall see
I don't think it sounds gay but you can
you can hear yeah so you can stream a
stream a movie and that's you know this
is not a particularly good machine it's
about five years old decrypting and
playing at the same time the browser is
able to handle that so before I can
quickly show you the social side so
while ending the whole process signing
up
see I've warned myself that's a terrible
password and well as well so we can do
something else if I try a password like
password then that tells us that's
actually the most common password or or
I could say obviously without leaking
that to the server one two three four
five six is the second most common pass
with its own the top 10,000 correct
Horst it's not in the top 10,000 but
anyway right so at least the same right
so we've signed out Alice hopefully yeah
we don't have any files yet Bob is
signee
rightio first things first let's friend
Ellis
hopefully that works I figure no back to
Ellis we've got a friend requests we can
accept that and reciprocate which makes
it bi-directional then go back to Bob if
we have a look at our friends who look
there's Alice wicked alright so now as
Bob let's upload something let's upload
two things in fact so
there's one image you can upload that
let's do another one bigger bit yep all
right so now this guy let's share that
with Alice eventually you won't have to
tighten the name explicitly here but
yeah okay
sharing complete so now if we go back to
Alice and so now we can see Bob in the
top level if you go there you can see
the file we can view it in the browser
or download it or whatever yeah and the
only other cool thing you can do is
Public Links and that basically puts the
capability thing I mentioned at the
beginning into the link itself other
people have talked about similar things
and so if we open this and another tab
so and there it is you notice I can't
see the other file that's next to it and
we can view that whatever
there we go code so that's pretty much
it yeah so check us out we don't have
been on live yet so we don't have a demo
server but yeah one of us is also in the
audience Kevin so ever talk to us
afterwards any questions so much it's
just using scripts
assest and hashing function itself is a
popular library yeah yes it's all open
source so it's all GPL a GPL get car on
github yeah
so the github is is there so we want to
we want to be able to handle big data we
haven't particularly stress tested that
yet but there are no like we've already
shot everything it's all like because we
chunk it all that's all kind of done
already so the only potential problem is
actually only ipfs side when we're
trying to pin a very large set and if
you have more files than you can fit on
an individual ipfs node eventually we're
going to use our if there's custard for
that but that's not quite there yet
so in GDP if you have like
groups could share so the moment it's
one-to-one I mean you can share the same
thing with many people and you can hunt
share with one of them and so on but
there's no group chat or whatever yeah
but yes that's on the robot alright so
if you have more questions